stock options we had two equity compensation plans in effect at december 31 , 2015 : the 2009 stock incentive plan ( 201c2009 plan 201d ) and the stock plan for non-employee directors . the 2009 plan succeeded the 2006 stock incentive plan ( 201c2006 plan 201d ) and the teamshare stock option plan ( 201cteamshare plan 201d ) . no further awards have been granted under the 2006 plan or under the teamshare plan since may 2009 , and shares remaining available for grant under those plans have been merged into the 2009 plan . vested stock options previously granted under the 2006 plan , the teamshare plan and another prior plan , the 2001 stock incentive plan , remained outstanding as of december 31 , 2015 . we have reserved the maximum number of shares of common stock available for award under the terms of each of these plans . we have registered 57.9 million shares of common stock under these plans . the 2009 plan provides for the grant of nonqualified stock options and incentive stock options , long-term performance awards in the form of performance shares or units , restricted stock , rsus and stock appreciation rights . the compensation and management development committee of the board of directors determines the grant date for annual grants under our equity compensation plans . the date for annual grants under the 2009 plan to our executive officers is expected to occur in the first quarter of each year following the earnings announcements for the previous quarter and full year . in 2015 , the compensation and management development committee set the closing date as the grant date for awards to our executive officers . the stock plan for non-employee directors provides for awards of stock options , restricted stock and rsus to non-employee directors . it has been our practice to issue shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options from previously unissued shares , except in limited circumstances where they are issued from treasury stock . the total number of awards which may be granted in a given year and/or over the life of the plan under each of our equity compensation plans is limited . at december 31 , 2015 , an aggregate of 5.6 million shares were available for future grants and awards under these plans . stock options granted to date under our plans vest over four years and have a maximum contractual life of 10 years . as established under our equity compensation plans , vesting may accelerate upon retirement after the first anniversary date of the award if certain criteria are met . we recognize expense related to stock options on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period , less awards expected to be forfeited using estimated forfeiture rates . due to the accelerated retirement provisions , the requisite service period of our stock options range from one to four years . stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to the market price of our common stock on the date of grant , except in limited circumstances where local law may dictate otherwise. .