1 . includes $ 18.24 billion and $ 15.76 billion as of december 2014 and december 2013 , respectively , of direct loans primarily extended to corporate and private wealth management clients that are accounted for at fair value . 2 . see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about loans receivable . below is a description of the captions in the table above . 2030 global core liquid assets and cash . we maintain substantial liquidity to meet a broad range of potential cash outflows and collateral needs in the event of a stressed environment . see 201cliquidity risk management 201d below for details on the composition and sizing of our 201cglobal core liquid assets 201d ( gcla ) , previously global core excess ( gce ) . in addition to our gcla , we maintain other operating cash balances , primarily for use in specific currencies , entities , or jurisdictions where we do not have immediate access to parent company liquidity . 2030 secured client financing . we provide collateralized financing for client positions , including margin loans secured by client collateral , securities borrowed , and resale agreements primarily collateralized by government obligations . as a result of client activities , we are required to segregate cash and securities to satisfy regulatory requirements . our secured client financing arrangements , which are generally short-term , are accounted for at fair value or at amounts that approximate fair value , and include daily margin requirements to mitigate counterparty credit risk . 2030 institutional client services . in institutional client services , we maintain inventory positions to facilitate market-making in fixed income , equity , currency and commodity products . additionally , as part of market- making activities , we enter into resale or securities borrowing arrangements to obtain securities which we can use to cover transactions in which we or our clients have sold securities that have not yet been purchased . the receivables in institutional client services primarily relate to securities transactions . 2030 investing & lending . in investing & lending , we make investments and originate loans to provide financing to clients . these investments and loans are typically longer- term in nature . we make investments , directly and indirectly through funds that we manage , in debt securities , loans , public and private equity securities , real estate entities and other investments . 2030 other assets . other assets are generally less liquid , non- financial assets , including property , leasehold improvements and equipment , goodwill and identifiable intangible assets , income tax-related receivables , equity- method investments , assets classified as held for sale and miscellaneous receivables . goldman sachs 2014 annual report 49 .