republic services , inc . notes to consolidated financial statements 2014 ( continued ) credit exposure , we continually monitor the credit worthiness of the financial institutions where we have deposits . concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable are limited due to the wide variety of customers and markets in which we provide services , as well as the dispersion of our operations across many geographic areas . we provide services to small-container commercial , large-container industrial , municipal and residential customers in the united states and puerto rico . we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers , but generally do not require collateral to support customer receivables . we establish an allowance for doubtful accounts based on various factors including the credit risk of specific customers , age of receivables outstanding , historical trends , economic conditions and other information . accounts receivable , net accounts receivable represent receivables from customers for collection , transfer , recycling , disposal , energy services and other services . our receivables are recorded when billed or when the related revenue is earned , if earlier , and represent claims against third parties that will be settled in cash . the carrying value of our receivables , net of the allowance for doubtful accounts and customer credits , represents their estimated net realizable value . provisions for doubtful accounts are evaluated on a monthly basis and are recorded based on our historical collection experience , the age of the receivables , specific customer information and economic conditions . we also review outstanding balances on an account-specific basis . in general , reserves are provided for accounts receivable in excess of 90 days outstanding . past due receivable balances are written-off when our collection efforts have been unsuccessful in collecting amounts due . the following table reflects the activity in our allowance for doubtful accounts for the years ended december 31: .