effective january 1 , 2013 , gs bank usa implemented the revised market risk regulatory framework outlined above . these changes resulted in increased regulatory capital requirements for market risk , and will be reflected in all of gs bank usa 2019s basel-based capital ratios for periods beginning on or after january 1 , 2013 . gs bank usa is also currently working to implement the basel 2 framework , as implemented by the federal reserve board . gs bank usa will adopt basel 2 once approved to do so by regulators . in addition , the capital requirements for gs bank usa are expected to be impacted by the june 2012 proposed modifications to the agencies 2019 capital adequacy regulations outlined above , including the requirements of a floor to the advanced risk-based capital ratios . if enacted as proposed , these proposals would also change the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action that is applicable to gs bank usa by , among other things , introducing a common equity tier 1 ratio requirement , increasing the minimum tier 1 capital ratio requirement and introducing a supplementary leverage ratio as a component of the prompt corrective action analysis . gs bank usa will also be impacted by aspects of the dodd-frank act , including new stress tests . the deposits of gs bank usa are insured by the fdic to the extent provided by law . the federal reserve board requires depository institutions to maintain cash reserves with a federal reserve bank . the amount deposited by the firm 2019s depository institution held at the federal reserve bank was approximately $ 58.67 billion and $ 40.06 billion as of december 2012 and december 2011 , respectively , which exceeded required reserve amounts by $ 58.59 billion and $ 39.51 billion as of december 2012 and december 2011 , respectively . transactions between gs bank usa and its subsidiaries and group inc . and its subsidiaries and affiliates ( other than , generally , subsidiaries of gs bank usa ) are regulated by the federal reserve board . these regulations generally limit the types and amounts of transactions ( including credit extensions from gs bank usa ) that may take place and generally require those transactions to be on market terms or better to gs bank usa . the firm 2019s principal non-u.s . bank subsidiaries include gsib , a wholly-owned credit institution , regulated by the fsa , and gs bank europe , a wholly-owned credit institution , regulated by the central bank of ireland , which are both subject to minimum capital requirements . as of december 2012 and december 2011 , gsib and gs bank europe were both in compliance with all regulatory capital requirements . on january 18 , 2013 , gs bank europe surrendered its banking license to the central bank of ireland after transferring its deposits to gsib . goldman sachs 2012 annual report 187 .